{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1043{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Lucida Console;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs36\lang1033 XNL R36 Linux Partition Sizer Help\line\b0\fs20 The XNL R36 Linux Partition Sizer is \ul only\ulnone  intended to be used for the R36S and R36H in combination with the Official ArkOS (using the RG351MP image), or when using the Community Maintained ArkOS for these devices. Do however keep in mind that even though I did tested it to work with the Community Maintained version by AeolusUX, the official support of this application only applies to the Official ArkOS image. Simply because that is the one I'm using, and thus can also (frequently and easily) test myself.\par
\b\fs36 What Does This Application Do?\line\b0\fs20 This application can be used to assign more storage space to the Linux (and thus ArkOS) partition of your R36S/R36H. The extra space you assign to the Linux partition will basically be 'taken away' from the ROM's partition.\line\line\b\fs36 Why would I want to do that??\line\b0\fs20 IF you even want to do that totally depends on your use of the R36S / R36H. If you only want to run ArkOS, EmulationStation, RetroArch and play the regular games/emulators on it? \b Then you most definitely don't need this at all.\b0\line\line If you are however planning to install a few (or even a lot) of my add-ons for ArkOS on the R36S/R36H, then you might actually want to give Linux/ArkOS some extra storage space to account for the extra options/add-ons without using the storage space ArkOS itself needs and/or has reserved (by the developer).\line\line Currently I haven't released much large installations/add-ons for ArkOS on the R36S/H \b yet\b0 , but I am working on quite a few large (and also smaller) add-ons which will give you quite a few more options, tweaks, tools, settings etc. And depending on how much you are into expanding the capabilities of your R36, you \b might\b0  want to assign more storage space to Linux/ArkOS to account for this.\line\line\b\fs36 How does this work?\line\b0\fs20 You will need to run this tool \ul\b right after\ulnone\b0  you've flashed a new ArkOS image to your SD-Card, and \ul\b before\ulnone\b0  you insert the SD-Card (back) into your R36. You \ul\b really\ulnone\b0  need to use this tool \ul\b BEFORE\ulnone\b0  booting the SD-Card for the first time. Even if you 'just booted once' with the freshly created SD-Card, then this program will no longer be able to adjust the initial boot scripts to adjust the storage space.\par
\b\fs36 Can't I use this on my existing OS-TF card?\line\b0\fs20 NO, sorry! This is because this tool modifies the \b initial\b0  boot script (firstboot) of ArkOS where it assigns the (remaining) storage space to the ROM's/EASYROMS partition. This program basically modifies that script in such a way that it tells ArkOS that it needs to 'keep more storage space for itself'. If we would make such modifications to the filesystem (partitions) on an existing installation, then you would basically lose all data on the ROM's partition when doing so.\line\line\b\fs36 Why does it seem like the values don't add up?\line\b0\fs20 It could indeed be that the values of the three partitions (BOOT, Linux and ROM's) doesn't fully add up to the \b\i Detected (Usable) Card Size \b0\i0 value displayed. This is specifically noticeable when you've switched the application to base-10 style. This simply explained has to do with how I did the calculations, how \b\i long\b0\i0  values (a variable type which can have decimals) are converted to integers (numbers without  decimals), and in those conversions some digits might (will) get lost. But no worries, This won\rquote t cause any issues or lead to missing disk space on your SD-Card ;)\par
\b\fs36 The partition sizes don't (exactly) match on my R36\line\b0\fs20 This is indeed very well possible. This mainly effects the ROM's partition (slightly). This has to do with the calculation methods used in my application, in Linux, but also how ArkOS for example calculates the assigned partition sizes. However the size would/should not differ too much from the selected configuration :) \par
\b\fs36 What size(s) do you recommend for my Linux Partition?\line\b0\fs20 That totally depends on what you are planning to install or not, and if you for example want to be 'future proof ready', for \ul\b IF\ulnone\b0  I might release larger packages, installations etc which need to be installed onto the Linux partition itself (this could for example also be dependencies (system files) which are required to run some of the add-ons). I really can't give a specific estimation, but the listings bellow should be sufficient for most cases :)\line\line NOTE: The "Extra" part of these listings mean that you'll \b add that amount\b0  to your Linux partition. Example: If your Linux by default (it's minimal size) is \b 8GB\b0 , and I mention \b 5GB extra\b0 , that you will set the Linux partition size to be(come): \b 13GB \b0 (8GB+5GB Extra).  And the same goes for the other recommendations.\par
\b\fs24 5GB Extra\fs20\line\b0 Should be sufficient for most smaller packs, lots of small add-ons and other plugins, and one or two larger add-ons. This also includes some 'overhead' for possible future releases.\line\line\b\fs24 10GB Extra\b0\fs20\line This should be enough for most packages, including the larger ones and it also takes possible larger installation packages in the future into account (those I didn't even thought of at the moment of writing this ;) ).\line\line\b\fs24 15GB Extra\fs20\line\b0 This? This will cover it \b all\b0 , and I suspect that my modifications and all possible add-ons I might come up with will never exceed this amount of data. \par
\b\fs24 20GB Extra\fs20\line\b0 You must be a developer aren't you? ;) Yeah, this COULD be a usable size if you are planning to install all headers, compilers, cross-compilers and several other large development packages. But honestly? Quit overkill for 99% of the users.\line\line\b\fs24 25GB Extra (Required for XNL Insider Program Members!)\fs20\line\b0 This is ONLY \b required\b0  for members of the \i XNL Insider Program\i0 , otherwise it's just a waste of storage space! The reason that this is \b required\b0  for XNL Insider Program members is because of the large packages we test, large binary files, a special system we (can) use where one device can fully switch between different configurations for easier testing of \lquote projects\rquote  and other stuff. For ANY other user? Nope, don't even do it.\par
\b\fs24 >25GB Extra\fs20\line\b0 MORE? Seriously? Then you must have your own very good reason to do so, I just can't recommend anyone to do this if you don't already know why you would want to do this ;)\line\line\b\fs24 XNL Insider Program Note\b0\fs20\line Nope, don\rquote t worry, you aren\rquote t missing out on something, there is no \ldblquote special application\rdblquote  you can apply for etc. The XNL Insider Program is just for me, the people who help me test stuff before it even starts to qualify for release, and the XNL Future Technologies Community staff. So nope, it\rquote s not a \lquote special program\rquote  or so ;).\line\line\b\fs24 Assigning 5 to 10GB to Linux isn\rquote t that much\b0\fs20\line It might look like \lquote loosing a lot\rquote  of storage space to the Linux Partition, but honestly if you would \lquote donate\rquote  about 5 to 10GB from the ROM\rquote s partition to your Linux while having a 128, 256 or even a 512GB SD-Card, then that is really not that much. Most ROM\rquote s/games on these devices are not that big at all, and if you do have \i SOOOOO\i0  much ROM\rquote s on a device like the R36S/R36H that you need all 256/512GB? Then you might have other problems in my opinion ;) :P\fs22\line\line\b\fs36 "Hidden Pro Mode"\line\b0\fs20 The XNL R36 Linux Partition Resizer also has a \ldblquote hidden\rdblquote  \lquote pro-mode\rquote . With this mode you basically just enable the visibility of an textbox which holds the current value of the adjustment slider (in bytes). You could use this textbox to copy the value and then manually edit the \b expandtoexfat.sh\b0  on your boot partition.\line\line\b\fs24 Enabling the \ldblquote hidden pro mode\rdblquote\b0\fs20\line To enable the \ldblquote\i hidden pro mode\i0\rdblquote  you will need to hold down CTRL+SHIFT and then keep clicking (quickly) on the SD-Card with Tux on it until a message pops up telling you that the \lquote pro mode\rquote  has been activated.\line\line\b\fs24 The Manual Editing Of The Boot Script\b0\fs20\line In the epandtoexfat.sh there should be a \ldblquote code block\rdblquote  similar to the one bellow:\kerning2\fs22                                                                                                \kerning0\fs20\line\f1 newExtSizePct=\cf1 $(printf %.2f "$((10**4 * \highlight2\kerning2 11000000000\highlight0\kerning0 /$maxSize))e-4")\cf0\line newExtSizePct=\cf1 $(echo print 1-$newExtSizePct | perl)\cf0\line ExfatPctToRemain=\cf1 $(echo print 100*$newExtSizePct | perl)\line\line\cf0\f0 Where you would need to replace the highlighted part (11000000000) with the value from the textbox. This value can of course change in future updates of ArkOS, as well as this code block, do keep this in mind! \line\line WARNING: You NEED to use a program which can save the file in Unix format when editing this file! A program like Notepad++ would be suitable to do this. The regular Windows Notepad will be able to do it if you properly set it to UTF-8, but to prevent issues I would not recommend using it.\line\line Please DO NOT edit these files yourself manually if you don\rquote t know what you are doing!\line\line\f2\fs22\lang19\par
}
 